# 12/30/2020 Refactoring

Did two things:

- Added show/hide to meteorite display component.  

Started with `*ngIf`, but this had some problems:

- Had to make an API request everytime it toggled from hide/show (or request to cache)
- If you pressed 'Recent' before hiding, it wouldn't show again until you hit ALL because the component couldn't get .slice() of undefined  

So I changed this to hidden css property.
All around much faster and no problems.  

This is where unit testing that function would be great.  

Next, removed the BreakPoint Observer stuff from the SideNav.
Added the ability to close the sidenav just by clicking outside of it.  

Next, for better UX:

- I'm going to need the Astronomy Pics API to come through a route resolver.
  - The page just doesn't look good when the Heading is showing and the images aren't loaded yet.

## New Branch 01-route-resolver-astro-pics

Implementing a route resolver for astronomy-pics page (gallery view)  

- Implemented route resolver
- removed homeService from meteorite-list, removed astroPicsService from astronomy-pics list component (not needed with resolver in place)

### Next Up

I could do more to improve the safety and function of the application.

- Implement more models/interfaces (objects, functions)
- Implement testing to components, services, routes, modules  

Testing is big, and for the most part will show where weaknesses are.  

More features to improve UX

- have an instance of a description preview for astronomy pics, create a pipe that reduces the size of the string containing the explanation
- Have the generate random image component -> this would implement the explanation preview and custom pipe
- Generate tests for the pipe (they're at least the easiest to test)  

### To-Do Outside of This Project

In consideration of making an Angular library of reusable code, I could get started with a Custom Pipes Library.
This would include custom pipes that can be reused, like the mass conversion pipe, along with tests for these pipes.  

Something like the mass-conversion pipe could actually be turned into an npm package.
That would be pretty cool to publish.  

Have the source code open source on Github, and then publish it as an npm package.
Now again, with this project being closed-source as it is, I am going to make a copy in a public repository.
Before I do so, I'd remove the notes and extra files, and I need to hide the config file, have it added to the .gitignore file.  

Not a huge deal, but my API key shouldn't be exposed (even though they're free, and you can get one very easily).  

Or, to make this project public, change the names of the folders/files containing stuff that I want to hide and just add the new names to the .gitignore.

## take() operator

`take(1)` will make the HTTP call one time, and return the result.
This is a way to, essentially unsubscribe and help with memory leaks.
I implemented this in all of my services.

## Random Image Module

Although there are probably better file structures, I am going to continue to follow my convention.
I created this module for the view for generating random image.

- Lazy load, new view, share with astro-pic service, same as home page.  

For this, I would like to demonstrate the use of an Event Emitter, and emit a click event or something else.

- Module, page components, routing module, lazy loading, all set up and route is working.
- Next step add to the sidenav  

One thing about the sidenav, and you see this on the new page with no content, as well as a page that is still loading, the page doesn't take up the whole screen.
So the sidenav is only really loading on half of the screen, so I need to set like height 100% on the sidenav.

- Added 100vh to scss for `_layout` for random-image page
- Fixed it on load, will probably need to change this with dev.  

Now to build out the page.
I'd like to keep the components to the minimum needed.
Additionally, I'll get all of the functionality into services so I don't need to have logic in the component, other than emitting an event.

## Passing Data from Child to Parent

Watching Pluralsight video from Angular Fundamentals.

- `@Output()` parameters
- Typically used for a form group  

Idea, random image generator is easy, and I can do that.
What if I also use the Material date picker, and allow the user to pick a date, and the component will show the Astronomy Image of the Day from the chosen date?
This would require the event emitter to be wired up, I think that this is a good feature to add after.
I will still try to get an event emitter in the random image module/page.  

Angular Fundamentals uses forms to demonstrate `Output` parameters.
Taking a look at 'Angular: Getting Started' on `Output` parameters.  

[Here is an event emitter example on StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/edit/so-angular-event-emitter) and I am going to do this but with generating random images.
So everytime you click the button, this will display an image.  

A fix for the future will to be to limit the total number of requests that can be made.
At a certain point it should start just loading cached images (take from the other pages/repeat images) to limit the allowable requests.
Like someone could just spam this and get my key blocked.

## Event Emitter next steps

I have a button that is working to output a string to the DOM.
This is based on the above example from StackBlitz.
It's the general behavior that I want, but with an image from the API.  

So, what I want to do is get the view working with a dummy service.
Like what would be done in a test, this will just serve the data from one image.
So it will replicate the HTTP response from the live API.  

Therefore, in the initial development environment, the same image will be outputted to the DOM each time the button is pressed.
This can just be JSON, and make sure that it emits an Observable the same way that the service does.
Can I just have the service do a get request on a file??  

[This post in stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44042223/load-json-from-local-file-with-http-get-in-angular-2) shows how to add `data.json` to assets folder and register it with angular.json to access via localhost url.  

Assets is already registered, so to request the json file you just need to go to this url:  
<http://localhost:4200/assets/dummy-img.json>  

So I should just be able to use that with the get request.
I'll just make sure it conforms to the `IApd` model.  

- Copied over the data from today's Astronomy Picture of the Day. This is now accessible  

Alright, so CORS policy issue.
I can't make the request to localhost without adding a proxy.
Don't feel like going through that right now so I just added it to the random-image-page component as an object.  

Turned the object into an Observable in the `random-image-page.component.ts` file.
Now I can work with this as though it is a response from the server.
