# Creating and Using Directives

- [Creating and Using Directives](#creating-and-using-directives)
  - [From Angular Fundamentals Pluralsight Course](#from-angular-fundamentals-pluralsight-course)
  - [Opening a Modal with a Directive](#opening-a-modal-with-a-directive)
    - [Binding and Reusability](#binding-and-reusability)
    - [Where to Import](#where-to-import)

## From Angular Fundamentals Pluralsight Course

Going back over this section before creating and using a directive for better understanding.  

My goal is to create a directive for adding dynamic number of columns with Material.
I want to have this in my personal library, along with unit testing.  

## Opening a Modal with a Directive

This is what they are doing in the course.
Not my implementation, I'm following to understand Directive concepts in general.  

### Binding and Reusability

Having the dynamic grid functionality within a component tightly binds that functionality to the component.
On the backend, this is working with a third-party package.
I want to have something that can be used in any component, not just the single component that needs it right now.  

We can attach functionality to a DOM node with a directive.
Additionally, I'll probably add a modal at some point, and can follow this to make a modal-trigger directive as well.

- Directives can have `ngOnInit()`
- Typically have a constructor function  

So, this directive is supposed to listen for the click event, and then trigger.
You wouldn't want this to trigger just when the Directive loads.

- Uses an `ElementRef` to reference the element that the directive is on
- `ElementRef` is a wrapper, to get the actual DOM element, you use `HTMLElement`.
- Since this is listening to a click event, you can just use `addEventListener()`  

### Where to Import

This is just imported into a Module like a service or whatever.
It will just be available for property binding in a component template.  

So, if this is going to be available throughout the application, this should be imported to Core Module.
Then it goes in the `declarations` array.
