# Random Image Functionality

1. Finish up the functionality for the component
2. Style for Dark Mode  

Then I'll be moving onto the dark/light modes toggle functionality.

- Added initial styling and scss file/folder structure to random-image module components
- Removed global margin introduced through the sidenav component. Updated all component layouts to fit  

Okay so I got this working.
The number of columns is set in the HTML, how do I set this with a media query?  

[Here is a stack overflow question addressing this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48493652/angular-5-mat-grid-list-responsive)  

- Angular Material docs: `BreakpointObserver` is a way to evaluate media queries and react to the changes
  - So this is the provided solution for media queries in a component  

1. Create an interface for the grids based on breakpoint:

```ts
export interface IResponsiveGridColumns {
  xs?: number;
  sm?: number;
  md?: number;
  lg?: number;
  xl?: number;
}
```

One of the solutions is to create a directive.
While I can just copy this and it will probably mostly work, at least, I want to understand what's going on with these solutions.  

Heres why: the reason that I had to go back and redo all of the layout margins was because I just copied the styling for the sidenav originally.
I had set a margin on that, and this component houses all of the components, and this affected everything downstream.
So I want to be sure of exactly what the solution is going to do at each line of code.  

In the directive in the class, a private variable is set which has the type of the column interface

```ts
export class Example {

  private countBySize: IResponsiveGridColumns = { xs:2, sm:2, md:4, lg:4, xl:6 };

}
```

he then uses a getter and a setter.
The getter, gets this Object that was just instantiated as a private variable.
The setter implements some directive-specific stuff that I don't really know what it's doing.  

It takes in the interface as a 'map' argument, and runs a conditional.
The conditional makes sure that we passed in an argument, and then checks to see that the argument is an Object.
If these are both true, it sets `this.countBySize` to be equal to `map`.  

All-in-all the getter and the setter look at the private variable and return it, check to make sure it is the correct type, and then set the private variable as the map for the Directive.  

that looks like this:

```ts
export class Example {

  private countBySize: IResponsiveGridColumns = { xs:2, sm:2, md:4, lg:4, xl:6 };

  // getter
  public get cols(): IResponsiveGridColumns {
    return this.countBySize;
  }

  // Setter -> takes in 'responsiveCols', which is the selector for the Directive
  @Input('responsiveCols')
  public set cols(map: IResponsiveGridColumns) {
    if (map && ('object' === (typeof map))) {
      this.countBySize = map;
    }
  }

}
```

Keep in mind the usage of this.
This is used on a `mat-grid-list` element in the template.
It will take in the `countBySize` variable through property binding.
Thus, these values will be set in the template.
This makes the selector, `[responsiveCols]` make more sense.
Here's how that would look in the HTML template:

```html
<mat-grid-list [responsiveCols]="{ xs:2, sm:2, md:4, lg:4, xl:6 }"></mat-grid-list>
```

Next we get to the constructor method.
This will instantiate a private variable of `grid` set to the type of `MatGridList`, which comes from Material Module.
Then instantiate a private `media` variable set to type `ObservableMedia`.
`ObservableMedia` and `MediaChange` are imports from angular/flex-layout.
Looks Like I need to reinstall that!

[Here's the repo](https://github.com/angular/flex-layout)  
Branching before install, merging after import and it works.

```ps1
# Install from npm and save
npm i -s @angular/flex-layout @angular/cdk
# Probably already have angular cdk
```

I am going to import this into core module.

```ts
import { FlexLayoutModule } from '@angular/flex-layout';
//
//
@NgModule({
  //
  imports: [ FlexLayoutModule ],
});
```

Now I will be able to use those two dependencies in the Directive.
Even if I go another route, looks like I need this either way.  

The constructor will call a method `initializeColsCount()`.
Here are some things in this method:

- `.some()` -> checks whether at least one element in an array passes the test in the function
- `Object.keys()` -> returns an array of a given object's own *enumerable* property names. Iterated in the same order that a normal loop would.
  - So if you have `{ a: 'string1', b: 'string2', c:42 }`, the output of `Object.keys(object1)` would be `['a','b','c']`
  - In other words, it gives you an array of keys  

This method calls `.keys` on the countBySize object, and so would return the grid keys like xs, sm, and so on.
Then it calls .some on this, to check if there is at least one key that matches `media.isActive(mqAlias)`.

- media comes from flex-layout, as does isActive.
- You can see this in the repository for Angular Flex Layout.  

Two APIs on `MediaObserver` injectable:

- media -> `Observable<MediaChange>`
- isActive -> boolean  

This uses the Breakpoint Registry to monitory the screen size and then inject this information.
So that allows you to have custom media query code.
Things like sm, xs, etc. are aliases associated with the mediaQuery for mobile viewport sizes.  

You can use this stuff in an `*ngIf` to only show if something is active.
I could actually use this logic as well, as opposed to creating a directive:

```html
<div class="content" *ngIf="mediaObserver.isActive('xs')">
  This only shows on mobile viewport sizes
</div>
```

To use this, `MediaObserver` is injected into the constructor of the component whos template this is in, and in the component you call a method if the active viewport is mobile.
This method is typically named `loadMobileContent()`.  

You need to pass in the media query to the mediaObserver isActive  

```ts
const PRINT_MOBILE = 'print and (max-width: 600px)';
!this.mediaObserver.isActive(PRINT_MOBILE)
```

So this is evaluating for the condition where the active media query is not a max-width of 600px.
That specific query is a mediaQuery for printing with mobile viewport sizes.
