# 1/4/2021 Evening Development

Right now the HTTP request for 50 images in the `ngOnInit` method.
So It's calling immediately.
50 is too much, let's scale it back to say, 10 for dev and then adjust up from there.
That's probably a decent minimum though.  

## Quick Note with Git

I just did a `git stash`.
If you haven't committed your changes, this will save them, but restore the working directory back to a clean state.
To bring the changes back out, do `git stash pop`.
`git show` will show the changes that were stashed.
I believe that `git stash apply` applies the changes, but they stay stashed?
So pop applys the stash and removes it from the stash list.
If you run git stash apply, this applies and keeps it in the stash cache.

- [1/4/2021 Evening Development](#142021-evening-development)
  - [Quick Note with Git](#quick-note-with-git)
  - [Iterating through an Array of Objects](#iterating-through-an-array-of-objects)
    - [The Iteration - Alternative to ngFor](#the-iteration---alternative-to-ngfor)
  - [Event Binding](#event-binding)
    - [Desired Series of Events](#desired-series-of-events)
    - [Directive and HostListener](#directive-and-hostlistener)
    - [Building Out the Directive More](#building-out-the-directive-more)

## Iterating through an Array of Objects

Okay this should work with an if statement and a property that increases.
Just like the most basic `for` loop with `i++`, except this iteration happens when the button is pressed.  

The question is, where should the logic happen?
Should it come from the child or the parent, and should it be put into a service?  

My initial thought is that each image to display should be emitted from the child component through the `@Output` property.
The parent would subscribe, push this to another array, and the `ngIf` would then display the DOM elements.  

Do I even need the child component for this?
Can't I just have the logic in another service and handle the click, functionality, and templating from one component?
Do I really need the child to emit the event?  

The event emitter seems to work parent to child.
So I suppose this could be done with another lifecycle method but I do not know.  

### The Iteration - Alternative to ngFor

Instead of iterating, because I'm doing one at a time, I might want to not use `ngFor`.
I could use like `property[i]` and the index just increases by one each time the button is pressed.

- The array exists with 10 objects in it
- index property starts at 0
- no image displayed until the button is clicked
- after each click the index property increases by 1, and the image in the object at that index in the array is displayed.  

[From Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/angular/comments/cxt07z/change_image_on_button_click/) the suggestion is to avoid DOM manipulation as much as possible.
It says to use `BehaviorSubject` as an async datasource.

## Event Binding

I think I need to learn some more about event binding.
I can literally just call a method in its own component.
Now, I could use the `EventEmitter` with a directive and a service.
Similar to the setup for the `mat-grid-list` column numbers.
In this case the main component would then have an `@Output` property.  

A directive can have an `@Output` property that is bound to an event, like a click.
This would then emit from the directive.
Instead of having this be received by the component, it could pass that value into a service.
Does it need to have an `@Output` property in this case?  

A service can be used to hold shared state.  

### Desired Series of Events

- Button is clicked and a directive watches for this event
- The event is then broadcasted to a service
- The service gets the image that is to be displayed, and passes this to the component through an observable
- The component is subscribed to that observable, and outputs a DOM element each time it receives data from that Observable.  

### Directive and HostListener

You can attach a click event to a directive with `HostListener`.
[From here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41968974/how-to-handle-click-events-with-directive-in-angular2/41971514).  

This directive works:

```ts
import { Directive, HostListener } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[appClickHandler]'
})
export class ClickHandlerDirective {

  @HostListener('click', ['$event.target']) onClick() {
    console.log('button was clicked')
  }
}
```

Adding it to the button element results in the click event being triggered.

### Building Out the Directive More

So now I'm getting the click event, I need to pass the event into a service.
The question though, is should this be delegated to a directive?
Oh well, this is easy to pass on to a component.
The thing is, I want to keep logic outside of components.  

So on click, what should be passed to the service?
Probably a number.
So the initial property will be 0.  

But I also don't want an image displayed until the button is clicked, so I need the first number to be passed to be 0.  

Instantiating the property without assigning a value makes it undefined, so if undefined, pass 0, else `clickNumber++`.  

Here is the code I wrote to do this:

```ts
import { Directive, HostListener } from '@angular/core';

@Directive({
  selector: '[appClickHandler]'
})
export class ClickHandlerDirective {

  clickNumber:number;
  @HostListener('click', ['$event.target']) onClick() {
    console.log('button was clicked')
    if (this.clickNumber === undefined || +this.clickNumber === NaN) {
      this.clickNumber = 0;
      console.log(this.clickNumber);
    }
    else {
      this.clickNumber++
      console.log(this.clickNumber);
    }
  }
}
```
