# Dark Mode

[Here is the link to Material Docs](https://material.io/design/color/dark-theme.html#properties)  
They have great design guidelines.
To apply the background outside of the bounds of the sidenav content, I needed to do so programatically through the `ngAfterViewInit` in App Component.
[Here is the resource](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46670795/how-to-change-whole-page-background-color-in-angular).  

## Adding white overlay to background-color

Since you can't have a background and a background-color property with standard values in css, you can get around this with background: linear-gradient as well as background color.
Like this:

```scss
mat-toolbar {
  background: linear-gradient(
    rgba(255,255,255,0.11),
    rgba(255,255,255,0.11)
  );
  background-color: $darkmode-background;
}
```

[Here's the resource for that](https://css-tricks.com/tinted-images-multiple-backgrounds/)  

Just add scss vars for these and good to go.  

Home page is essentially complete.
I want one more bit of programmatic styling here.  

The Meteorite List filter buttons look good with the primary color.
I'd like to have the color of the SHOW/HIDE button change depending on value.  

When the btn displays SHOW -> accent color / accent hover color  
When the btn displays HIDE -> primary color / primary hover color  

1. In the style sheets, have two classes, each bound to the properties of one or the other button style
2. In the TypeScript component, we'll have the logic for changing the classes of the button
3. one class when SHOW, one class when HIDE  

I'll do it this way because the component shouldn't have access to the css variables, since that's just a css pre-processor.

## Current Progress

Everything has been converted to dark mode.
Additionally, all of the layouts (everything but random-image component page) have been properly styled and made responsive with media queries.
I have merged main to dark mode, as the overall styling is much improved.
Rather than going into the previous main and updating layout to have a light mode, the light mode should be derived from the current dark mode theme.  

The reason being that the dark mode layouts and color combinations are much better than they were previously set up with the standard theme.
Next steps are:

1. Functionality for random image component
2. Styling for this component
3. Adding dark mode/light mode toggle functionality
4. Styling for light mode
