# Meteor Tracker

- [Meteor Tracker](#meteor-tracker)
  - [First Steps](#first-steps)
  - [Setting up the Project](#setting-up-the-project)
    - [Command Line Installations with ng](#command-line-installations-with-ng)
    - [Adding Global Styles](#adding-global-styles)
  - [App Component](#app-component)

## First Steps

1. Replace placeholder content in the app component
2. Create first component
   1. Connect to App Module
   2. Insert selector in app component
3. Create second component
4. Create service
5. Wire everything up  

Then, it's on to part two...

## Setting up the Project

### Command Line Installations with ng

Command Line App Generation:

```ps1
ng new meteorite-tracker -p mt -Sg --style css
```

css stylesheet, no tests (-S), no git (-g), prefix 'mt' (-p), etc.  

Installation of ng-bootstrap:

```ps1
ng add @ng-bootstrap/ng-bootstrap
```

### Adding Global Styles

File: styles.css  

Changes: import Google fonts to the CSS file, probably it for now.

- Added Google Ubuntu fonts
- applied Ubuntu font-family to body with sans-serif backup font-family

## App Component

Easy setup here. First, deleted the html template (probably will go back to having a separate file), added site title with interpolation from the class export.
Added comments for dev steps.  

*Continuing On...*

- Created meteorite folder
- Created meteorite-list component
- Created meteorite-list component html template with h2
- Created meteorite directory barrel (index.ts)
- imported meteorite-list component, through index, to app module
- Added MeteoriteListComponent to declarations index in AppModule
- Added selector to meteorite-list component
- Added meteorite-list component html element to AppComponent  

So now I have the first data-bound component set up. Next, in the meteorite-list component, I'll put a meteorite object.
Once that is created, it can be brought into a child component through the Input decorator.  

Create meteorite object in class, create meteorite-detail component, register with module, create template, add input property...

1. created meteorites property as array of meteorite objects
2. Created MeteoriteDetailComponent
   1. Imported Input
   2. Created selector
   3. Created template
   4. Created full component shell, no html yet
3. Added meteorite-detail.component.ts to meteorites index.ts export barrel
4. Added MeteoriteDetailComponent to imports and declarations in AppModule
5. Declared 'meteorite' property with @Input decorator in meteorite-detail.component.ts class
6. In meteorite-list.component.html, added meteorite-detail selector element with *ngFor and property binding
7. In meteorite-detail.component.html, created template with interpolation to input meteorite properties  

At this point, the data is all showing on the UI. Styling is bad, so that would be the next thing.
Everything is wired up and working, would be a good time for a git init/commit.  

Wrapping up this section:

- Add styling
- Go through Section 01 notes
  - Have ready for publishing as a page
  - Concise and pretty  

Then it's time to move on to Section 02 -> goal is for this to take like no more than an hour.
Of course I'll likely have to come back for true publishing ready note pages, but get it nicer than bullets.
Also need to add in the different concepts, and how they all work together.
Like, why were each of these steps taken?

1. Added Safe-Navigation Operator to meteorite-detail.component.html
2. Added some spacing styling, not going to do too much color styling or anything until data setup further.
