# Section 02

[meteorite json endpoint](https://data.nasa.gov/resource/y77d-th95.json)  

Goals Here:

- connect the meteorite service
- create meteorite interface in model
- Get a click event going on -> change styles, something fun.  

NOTES:  

For dependency injection... Injectable decorator goes on the service.
No decorator needed in the component, just:

- import and add to AppModule provider
- import to component
- pass into component's constructor func. to initialize the service
- use ngOnInit to call the service on component load  

Really all I want this to do now is to pull data from the API. I don't think I'll take the meteor app further.  

## Adding HTTP

### app.module.ts

- import HttpClientModule from angular/common/http
- add to imports array

### meteorite.service.ts

- import HttpClient, HttpHeaders from angular/common/http
  - NOTE: I probably don't need HttpHeaders, that's likely for Post requests.
- Inject into constructor
  - Private method  

Notes taken in the files. Subscribe gets a bit complicated, but not really.
Just need to pass in an arrow function.
I'll go through that with the notes.  

Okay, so this app is basically done. All of the logic, anyway.
All that would be left is:

- limiting the number of results
- create filtering, sorting, searching methods
- styling  

Would be pretty badass to have filtering and sorting. I can go back to Pluralsight and implement some of that.
Now to get to that functionality, I'll have to:

- Get styling decent
- Have navigation with a search bar
- Create search methods  

So that could really be it.
Instead of having the filter and sort buttons, just have search.
I'm not even doing routing in the application. But what would it search by?
Our letters go up to T.  

ALSO, I could practice custom pipes, or just pipes in general.
The date format is fucked. So if any functionality that's Angular-specific, pipes are it.
Searching is more JavaScript logic than anything.
