# Styling the Application

- [Styling the Application](#styling-the-application)
  - [Branch Name: 12-28-2020-style](#branch-name-12-28-2020-style)
  - [Style Like Painting - Finish a Room](#style-like-painting---finish-a-room)
  - [Sidenav](#sidenav)
    - [Buttons](#buttons)
  - [Meteorite Stuff](#meteorite-stuff)
    - [Required Feature](#required-feature)
    - [Meteorite List Heading](#meteorite-list-heading)
  - [Meteorite-List Styling](#meteorite-list-styling)
  - [Astronomy Pics](#astronomy-pics)
  - [Astronomy Image Detail Page](#astronomy-image-detail-page)
  - [Must Fix](#must-fix)

## Branch Name: 12-28-2020-style

Still working through home page.
Converting reusable styling patterns to mixins & variables.  

Meteorite List -> Filter Meteorites div

- Style the Heading 'Meteorite List'
- Considering removing the colored div
- Style the Buttons  

Sidenav

- Try centering and spacing these, see how they look
- I think there is too much difference between the nav-buttons here, no need for them to be very distinct
- Two standard link buttons, same size and color could be fine, I don't know that I like the accent color here either.
- Maybe just like a lighter version of the Primary color, or match the dark shade which I do like  

After this, I think if the Astronomy Picture for the current day is to be featured on the home page, it too should click through to a detail page.
Especially because the current design of the application means that you can't read the details on today's astronomy picture until the following day.

## Style Like Painting - Finish a Room

I'm going to finish the sidenav, since it appears open on a large screen.
That's what it's going to mostly be viewed on, and since the top of the Home Page looks good, this is really a big part of the first impression.

## Sidenav

1. Move current scss to partials and import  

Get the structure right. BEM naming system is already in place.

### Buttons

- Responds to hover -> just a color change, some feedback on interaction with the button
- Then just color, that's it.
  - Go with dark shade first
  - Any hover color should be very subtle, not like the way that the meteorite divs currently are.  

Button styling is sufficient for now.
Using almost entirely mixins and variables.
I like having like a full btn-dark mixin and for the hover as well.

## Meteorite Stuff

Now what I the filtering buttons also make the list go from hidden by default to showing?
That could be interesting.
Just need to add a property and the ngIf deal that happens when it changes.  

Let's get some more styling first.

### Required Feature

This is a simple feature that will really improve UX:  
Add a button in the sidenav that also closes it

- Currently, you have to scroll to the top of the page to close the sidenav :frowning:

### Meteorite List Heading

Got the heading styled, as well as the div with the filtering buttons.  

**Note on importing global styles to components**: You do not need to import the global stylesheet to every partial scss file.
Import it once to the main component stylesheet and the variables/mixins can be used in all of the partials.

## Meteorite-List Styling

Now to move onto the list.
Although meteorite-list is one component, in this styling I will also include the meteorite-detail component.
They are separate files, but similar.  

Meteorite-list is really just one div that wraps the detail components.
So this can be styled really for layout only.
Additionally, any styles that could be cascaded down into the detail component could be included, although I'll likely just keep all styling local to an individual component as much as possible.  

**EDIT** the styling for width of each detail element is controlled by meteorite-detail component.
No need for any styling in meteorite-list.
In fact, I'll remove the scss link in component from this.

- Meteorite-Detail styling complete  

With this, I actually decided to just go with a very light gray.
I think that a bold color with so many populated elements is just overdoing it.

- Ah yes, it's not good on extra-wide screen.
- I will have to set a max width on the meteorite-display and the meteorite-detail components.
- I'm going to move on to the Astronomy Images page first. This has significant content, and is much more obvious than opening the Home view on an ultra wide.

## Astronomy Pics

Doing the styling for the root of this module.
After, I'll move onto the detail page.  

I should be able to finish these up within a few hours pretty easily, maybe prior to lunch (it's 10:15 AM).

- Added line height of 1em -> this saved me from 2 media queries for the h1 on the astronomy pictures page.

- Going to experiment with removing the elevation from the cards.
- Should be able to just add this class to do so to any Material element:

```html
<mat-card class="mat-elevation-z0">...</mat-card>
```

That worked.
Now I'd like to add some color to the card, I don't like it straight white.
From there, add some padding, get the cards at least closer to the same size.

## Astronomy Image Detail Page

Let's get through this part.
I want the application to be pretty good, but I am not going for perfection.
This is my first Angular application.  

I can always continue to contribute to this in the future.
This needs to be prepped for demo, and having it pushed to Heroku is a huge plus.  

Alright so this is good to go as well.
Didn't spend a massive amount of time on it all.  

the application is definitely functional, some additional steps that could be done to finish this up:

- Add a toggle button that's always in view -> could be a ***fixed action button***
- Add linking from the home page Astronomy Pic of the Day to the detail page for today's image
- clean up the code
- Add the hide/show functionality to the meteorite list on the home view
- Refactor the Home view -> services, resolvers, components
- Run through a linter to make sure the coding style is consisten
- Write and run some tests with Jasmine/Karma
- Create new repository (public), hide the config file, push to public repo as open-source project
- Build, production mode, deploy to Heroku  

## Must Fix

The page showing all of the images is showing each one twice.
This is probably some issue in the parent of the detail-component.  

So I really don't know why this is happening.
It's probably something that will take a fair amount of debugging to figure out.
I don't believe that I'm fetching them twice, I think I'm just rendering them twice.  

It might be one of the ngFor expressions.  

So now, it is working.
I assume there's some bug that's allowing the observable array to keep looping through the requests after 10.
Might be an rxjs operator that I'm using.
